>> Speaker 1: We're going to talk a little
bit today about building your own or
customizing or learning to live
with an AI developer setup, or
put another way,
using various AI tools 2 + in particular,
to kind of aid on a good day in
your software engineering journey.
Or as the kids like to say, vibe coding,
which I get it when I hear that term.
It brings up the image of a YouTuber who
built a SaaS company in a weekend and
wants you to know about it.
The term, in fairness, does come
from one of the founders of OpenAI.
I think it really captures
a lot of the experience
where you start to get into a flow state.
You're working with some of
these tools that are generating
a bunch of stuff, code.
Allegedly, things feel good.
You feel like you're some kind of wizard
of sorts until you hit this part that
I've kind of got highlighted
here that I really love.
The code grows beyond
my usual comprehension.
I have to really read through it for
a while, right?
And I think that that, like, summarizes
a lot of the like flow that myself.
A lot of people nodding
the room right now are like,
giving me the hint that that
might be a shared experience.
And then a lot of the other people I've
talked to kind of like on this journey of
kind of experience, which is like,
getting to the point where it's like,
wait a second, where did this go?
And so a big theme of our talk
today is gonna be about, like,
not only what are these tools and
how do I use them and
am I missing out on something and
has the gravy train left the station?
When we convince you that that is not
true, then there will also be the like,
how do we actually, like,
corral the complexity, right?
Cause on one hand, these tools are really
great at generating a lot of code quickly.
On the other hand, anyone who has ever
dropped into a legacy code base with lots
of code can tell you that's
not always a great thing.
There are some fundamental
principles that I think,
once we wrap our head around them, take
a little bit of magic out, which is good.
Cause it's a statistical model, there
shouldn't be that much magic in it, right.
And kind of help us
understand what's going on so
we can begin to corral that complexity,
put in some safeguards, understand it,
figure out how to make best use of it,
right?
And so, like, less that, like, it seems
like some sorcery, and more that it
seems like, you know, a kind of various
approaches to like, what we do every day.
Am I central thesis that I'M
going to argue to you is
there are a bunch of decades
old best practices in our
industry that a lot of times
we sometimes play fast and
loose with that actually work really well.
I aspire to have the best
git discipline in the world.
Sometimes I write a bunch of code and
then I make the commits later.
I aspire to do test driven development.
Sometimes, sometimes I write a bunch
of code and then I write the test and
kind of seeing how some of those
principles actually really kind
of come into play in really
interesting ways in this case as well.
And we'll kind of get a sense for
how all these things work because like,
at the end of the day, writing software
has always just been about trying to use
something that like somewhat resembles
human language to get a computer
which only understands like
millions of on and off switches and
electrons going through a copper wire
to do the thing we want it to do.
Right, and that is the name of the game.
It has always been the name of the game.
Whether you're putting in punch cards,
writing assembly or Ruby or Shockwave,
Flash or JavaScript or what have you,
the levels of abstraction keep rising.
I'm no longer in my day to day
Life as a JavaScript engineer,
manually managing memory,
some weak maps here there,
sometimes worried about
garbage collection.
Sure.
I think as the levels of extraction
keep rising, there is more and
more opportunities to do more, to have
more leverage in the things we're doing.
I think a lot of today is about how do we
get that leverage, how do we learn how to
use some of these tools to get that
leverage and not be on the other side of
it where we think we're being productive
but actually slowing ourselves down.
I think it just comes to most things
like kind of like understanding some of
the basic concepts in Primitives all
of a sudden makes this wild magic
an understandable thing that you at
least know how to somewhat control.
At least turned sorcery into alchemy,
which we'll take for now.
And AI tools are very good at
generating lots of code, right?
But there's kind of, if you think about
even career progressions, there's a joke
that as you move up the career ladder,
you write less and less code.
That's a fair joke.
It's also true that as you move up and
up the career ladder,
you get paid more, right?
So generally speaking, we could say that
maybe that kind of systems thinking and
high level stuff is also
the interesting and hard part.
And so I have this hypothesis,
especially for junior engineers or
people earlier on, it is really
hard to get some of that stuff,
systems thinking and architecture and
large code bases, large, messy code bases.
Early on in your career, kind of have to
just work at companies that have existed
longer than you've been working to
inherit all sorts of wild stuff, and
then have to dig out to
earn that experience.
But the good news is you can generate
huge messes on your own now and
figure out how to navigate them and
work through everything.
So that's going to be a part of
what we're talking about today.